【FOREWORD】

Music is the harmony of heaven and earth; ritual is the order of heaven and earth.
——The Book of Rites,the record of music
Since ancient times, China has been known as the "State of Manners", and the culture of rituals and music is an important part of traditional Chinese culture and a unique cultural symbol of the Chinese nation. On the basis of Zhou Gong's introduction of virtue into rituals, Confucius gave the culture of rituals and music the connotation and meaning of "benevolence", which made the Chinese culture of rituals and music return to humanistic care from the illusory world of ghosts and gods. "A Glimpse of Rites in Music" tells the civilization of rites and music with music as the clue, playing from heaven and earth, people and gods into the world of human beings, and resonating through the five lakes and all over the world by the greatest sage and teacher.
The civilization of ritual and music is the backbone of traditional Chinese civilization and the core of Confucius' thought. It sprang up in prehistory, matured in the Zhou Dynasty and formed a specific system of ritual and music, was secularized in the Spring and Autumn Period and the Warring States Period, and reached its peak in the Tang Dynasty, and was revived in the Ming and Qing Dynasties, although it declined a little in the Song Dynasty. Confucianism uses rites and music to educate and educate people. In the bureaucracy, it establishes "the difference between the inferior and the superior, and the system of the superior and the inferior" through the provisions of the rituals and rules, and cultivates the virtue of a gentleman; In society, it integrates the rites and music into the daily life, in order to maintain the inner emotional foundation of the rites.
At a time when "peace and development" is the theme of the world, the Chinese people have consistently pursued the ideal of cultivating one's moral character and aligning one's family, ruling the country and pacifying the world, and have continued the civilization of rites and music and the pursuit of "peace under heaven" advocated by Confucius. The flower of etiquette and music has blossomed for thousands of years and still has a strong vitality, and at the same time has taken root and sprouted in foreign soil, providing an important ideological resource and cultural support for building a bridge of common destiny for mankind.
This exhibition tries to explain the international exchange of Confucius' thoughts through the civilization of rites and music, so that the viewers can take music as a companion, trace the source of rites and music, cultivate the qi of a gentleman, enjoy the smoke and fire of the world, and the world's commonwealth, take a look at the changes of the past and the present, and view the fusion of the Chinese and foreign countries, and the civilization of rites and music, and the dissemination of the unceasing.